#!/usr/bin/perl -w
# run this document through perl to check its syntax
use Pod::Checker;
podchecker(\*DATA);

## If you read this file _as_is_, just ignore the funny characters you see.
## It is written in the POD format (see `man perlpod`) which is specially
## designed to be readable as is.

__END__

=head1 NAME

NewsVac Design Document

=head1 SYNOPSIS

NewsVac is a plugin for Slash that:

=over 4

=item *

Mines web sites for news

=item *

Automatically submits news that matches keywords

=back

The practical objective of NewsVac is to have an average of 120 NewsVac submissions per day, with half being postable stories, and that it takes less than an hour per day (half hour in the morning, half hour late afternoon) of an editor's time per day.  Of course, any improvement on the percentage of postable stories and decrease in time taken is good.

There are many steps in the NewsVac process.  See below for descriptions of terms.

=head2 Add URLs

Select URLs to be mined, and add them via the "URLs" page in the NewsVac interface (at newsvac.pl).  This page shows the URL's ID, the last successful mine of the URL, how many bytes it was, how many stories were mined from it, etc.

Click on the ID to edit/view the URL information, including the stories successfully mined from it, if any.  Click the URL to go to the URL.  Click the miner name to edit/view the miner.

By default, new URLs have the miner "none" assigned.  Type in a new or existing miner name (a miner is created if one does not exist by thatname).


=head2 Edit Miners

This is the difficult part.  The essential procedure is that, for each URL assigned to that miner, the miner will fetch its data, strip out undesirable portions of the data with regexes (optional), and then loop over the remaining data with a regular expression designed to identify and pull out the data for each story.

First, the boring part.  There are several text fields for trimming the data, to match up all combinations of plain text/regex, pre/post data, and "stories" page (the initial URL, with all the stories) and "story" page (the individual pages with single stories on them).  That's eight fields, if you're counting.

If you use the text field, then that text will be used exactly, either from the beginning of the data up to the first instance of that text (pre) or from that text to the end of the data (post).  For regex, it is the same, except that the regex will be used as a regular expression, instead of as literal text.

And the same principles apply for both the stories page, and story page.

After the stories page has been trimmed, the data is looped over with the extraction regex.  The regex will, on each match, place the captured text into the specified vars.  So for this set of vars, and extraction regex:

	url title slug
	<a\ href="([^"]*)">
		([^<]*)
	</a>
	<br>
	([^<]*)

The first captured data will be the story's URL, the second its title, and the third its slug.  Also optional is a source field.

Finally, there is a field for tweak code.  You may use this to modify the URL, or to specify the source, or to cancel a given item.  Examples:

	$cancel = 1 if $count > 10;
	$source = "Slashdot.org" unless $source;
	$url .= "?print=1";

If you specify an B<RSS> URL (one that matches /(rss|xml|rdf)$/ in either content-type or URL), then all the trimming, extraction regex, and vars are skipped.  The tweak code is still executed.  The RSS link element becomes the url, the title is the title, the description is the slug, and the channel's title is the source.  That simple.

B<Caveats>

=over 4

=item *

The story regexes do not get assigned directly to a story URL; they are assigned here to the miners.  It is possible that a story URL will have been mined by two separate miners; in that case, the most recently executed miner's story regexes will be used.

=item *

Similarly, because story regexes are assigned to a miner, you will not have one miner for all RSS sites, unless you want them to share the story regexes.

=item *

The extraction regex uses the /x modifier, so whitespace is ignored.  Specify a space character explicitly with [ ] or a backslash (as above), and a newline with \n.

=back


=head2 Testing Miners

Each time you save the miner, it will test itself and display the results, including what data was stripped, what URLs are found, and, finally, what story URLs/titles/slugs/sources were matched.  These URLs are fed into and saved in the database.  (For now ... I am not sure what side effects this has ... ?).


=head2 Adding Keywords

The keyword screen is simple.  Select a tag, or add one.  Add a keyword to the tag and give it a relative score.  Note that the weighting is done such that repeated use of the same word gives it less of a score each time, and the keywords themselves are regexes (and are case-sensitive).  The tags merely serve to group together similar topics of keywords.


=head2 Editing Spiders

Spiders are somewhat complex, but the editing screen is simple.  You select under what conditions the miner will run, which miners to select, and then which commands to execute.


=head2 Running Spiders

Spiders can only run one at a time, and can take hours to run, for a lot of miners and URLs.  To run all miners from the command line, you may do this:

	/usr/local/slash/bin/runtask -u VIRTUAL_USER -ospiders=allminers run_spider

The run_spider task will also run when you specify in the task.

[Something about spider time specifications that I don't understand yet. ???]

The spider will first mine all the URLs, then convert the nuggets created by the miners into URLs, then fetch each URL and strip it, and will then match each URL against the keywords.  Ones that match high enough to hit the minimum score (default is 10.0) will be submitted as stories.


=head2 Submissions

The submission screen will have a horizonal rule below the user-submitted submissions, and below that rule is the NewsVac'd submissions.  Each submission will have a title, followed by the keyword tags it matched, and the score.  To the right of that is the source and the miner name.

Clicking on the submission shows the slug and some additional extracted text that matched the keywords.  In text fields are the url of the article, and in url_title is the source.  These can be used later to automatically populate something on the article page. [???]


=head2 Display

???


=head1 DESCRIPTION

NewsVac is a powerful and complex system.  It has several components.


=head2 URLs

The URL tables store all the URLs, whether they are URLs to be mined for stories, or they are the story URLs themselves.


=head2 Miners

Miners take URLs assigned to them and mine them, looking for stories, and creating nuggets that describe the stories.


=head2 Nuggets

Nuggets are special URLs that contain the URL, title, slug, and source of a mined URL.  The source is where the data came from (such as "OSDN"); the slug is some additional text apart from the title (like introtext).


=head2 Parsers

Parsers operate in turn on specific types of data.  There are currently three parsers.

=over 4

=item parse_miner

This parser is used by the URLs returned by the miners.  It parses the incoming data (using various regexes to trim the page, and to find multiple stories on the page), and creates nuggets.

=item parse_nugget

This parser takes the nuggets and creates records in the database to be passed to the next parser.

=item parse_plaintext

This parser takes the stories and pulls out the text, to later be matched against keywords, and submitted.

=back


=head2 Spiders

Spiders control the whole flow of processing, executing the miners and calling each parser in order.  It is a data structure of conditions and instructions.

For each stage of the spidering, a group of URLs is fetched from the database.  Each URL is processed: that is 1. requested, and 2. analyzed.

To request a URL is to fetch it, either from the web, or, in the case of nuggets, by extracting the data from the nugget itself.  Here, the url_info and url_content tables are updated.

To analyze the URL is to process its data with the right parsers.  Here, the url_analysis table is updated (along with url_content for the plaintext data, and rel to store links (not sure what this means in this context?)).


=head2 Keywords

Keywords are words, grouped together by tags, to be used to weigh against stories parsed by parse_plaintext.  robosubmit() goes through and matches the stories against the keywords, and if the story meets a certain threshold, submits it to the submission bin.

There is no relationship between keywords and URLs.  All keywords on a site are applied to all URLs.


=head2 Tables

=over 4

=item url_info

The basic information describing a URL, including the URI, timestamps, status code, content type, what miner it belongs to, etc.

=item url_content

The response header and cookies for a URL.

=item url_analysis

Information about the URL's analysis: what parser was used, what miner was used, when it was analyzed, how long it took, how many nuggets were produced.

=item url_message_body

The body of the URL.

=item url_plaintext

The plaintext body of the URL.

=item rel table

A parser, when creating a new URL, will form a relationship between the new URL and the parsed URL, and stick that relationship here.  It describes what parser created the relationship, what type of URL the new URL is, etc.

=item miner

Describes each miner, including the various regexes used to trim text and find stories.

=item spider

Describes each spider, including the conditions, group_0 selects, and commands.

=item robosubmitlock

=item spiderlock

=item spider_timespec

Something apparently hacked on so certain spiders would only run at certain times.  This really should be changed so one spider can run an entire site, efficiently.  But there might not be time for that.  I am going to reevaluate this when I find out more about how it works.


=item nugget_sub

I don't know.  I thought this just listed URLs that can be submitted (submitworthy), but it apparently inserts into the table after creating submissions.  I don't understand when it is used, or what its purpose is.


=item newsvac_keywords

All the keywords, consisting of a regular expression (can be literal text), a relative weight in floating point, and what tag (group) it belongs to.

=back


=head1 TODO

Relative priorities from 1-10 are in parentheses.  All of these should get done, but will be done in order of priority so NewsVac can be "up and running" as soon as possible.  Other features and fixes can be finished later.  Some of these items may already be completed, though I am unaware of any of them being completed.

=over 4

=item *

Add ability to "mine" RSS.  Shouldn't be difficult to add; just add a new parse code, which will be called for certain content types.  The trick will be making sure that the content type is correct.  (COMPLETE)

=item *

Trim actual story (plaintext) so we don't match all of page, just the story.  Likely, this will happen in parse_plaintext; the trick is knowing how to trim each individual story, either having generic regexes (not likely) or specific ones per site, like with miners.  But while miners have regexes attached to them, these things don't have any such reasonable relationship.  I can attach the regex to the miner and climb the tree back up, and pick the first miner that matches, or the most recent one.  (COMPLETE)

=item *

Similar to above, also get first paragraph of story.  (6)

=item *

Refine how NewsVac submissions are displayed in the submissions bin.  Probably sufficient to make sure submissions are flagged as being from NewsVac, and then displayed separately, perhaps with a horizontal line below user-submitted stories.  No need to sort by weight, but have a cutoff for the total score, of course.  (COMPLETE)

=item *

Allow different keyword sets to apply to different URLs.  Assigned to miners, or spiders?  (5)

=item *

Abstract out robosubmitting, allow for possibly emailing results, not just creating submissions.  Defined per site, per spider, per miner?  (3)

=item *

Abstract out weighting.  (3)

=item *

Test miners from the interface, somehow.  I get the impression this is already working, though, at least to some degree.  I don't quite understand what happens when a URL/miner is added/edited; something is going out and fetching URLs, but I don't know what parsers are being called, what is being put into the DB, etc.  (8 [IN PROGRESS])

=item *

When submitting stories, properly populate the URL and Parent URL fields in section_extras (or any other fields they decide on).  Need to get "source" working in more miners.  (8 [IN PROGRESS])

=item *

Related: perhaps make I<topical> RSS feeds for Slash sites, not just sectional RSS feeds, which would make it so we could have NewsForge/Linux.com be the clearinghouse for NewsVac'd stories, and put those feeds into topics, letting each foundry pick up different applicable topics.  Just a thought, but we need to figure out how to populate foundries soon.  (7)

=back

=head1 CHANGES

  $Log$
  Revision 1.5  2002/10/03 19:05:31  pudge
  Added large section about newsvac process

  Revision 1.4  2002/09/19 19:27:09  pudge
  Major cleanup, bugfixes, etc.  Not for the faint of heart.

  Revision 1.3  2002/09/06 20:17:04  pudge
  Added brief objective.
  Added more information about miners, nuggets, spidering; checking for
    duplicates; display in submissions bin.
  Added to TODO: testing miners from interface; populating URL and URL
    Parent (section_extra) fields; topical RSS feeds.

  Revision 1.2  2002/09/04 20:29:58  pudge
  Added more information about spiders.
  Added basic information about the purpose of each DB table.
  Added TODO list.

  Revision 1.1  2002/09/04 17:07:09  pudge
  Describe basic outline of NewsVac structure.



=head1 AUTHOR

This document is being maintained by Chris Nandor E<lt>pudge@osdn.comE<gt>, with aid from Jamie McCarthy, Cliff Wood, Brian Aker, and Robin Miller.


=head1 VERSION

$Id$
