#!perl -w
# run this document through perl to check its syntax
use Pod::Checker;
podchecker(\*DATA);
__END__

=head1 NAME

HOWTO-Themes - How to write and use Slash themes

=head1 QUESTIONS

=head2 What is a theme?

A theme is a website design. It can have some functionality
to it (for example, the slashcode theme is a weblog). Functionality,
though, is normally split into seperate plugins.

=head2 How do I get my theme into the install system?

There are two ways to do this. First, you can put it in the
themes directory with the distribution. During the install it
will be copied to the themes directory (by default,
F</usr/local/slash/themes/>. The second option is to copy it in there
yourself. The directory layout is very important with themes.
The install expects to find a sql directory with a mysql and postgresql
directory in it. It expects a templates directory with templates in it and
finally it expects an htdocs directory. It copies files 
directly from htdocs to the install's directory.
Look at the slashcode theme as an example.

=head2 What does my theme need to make it work with the install?

Just the directory structure explained above. Right now there
is no THEME file like there is a PLUGIN file for PLUGINS.
Expect this to change at some point in the future.

=head2 I have a really cool theme and I would like to see it added to the Slash
distribution. Will you distributed mine?

Maybe. We don't have any rules concerning this at the moment, so it will be
on a case by case basis. At some point in the future we will come up
with a much better answer.

=head1 VERSION

$Id$
