#!perl -w
# To check its syntax, run this document through perl.
# To make it into plaintext at the standard location:
#	perldoc -tF docs/INSTALL.pod > INSTALL
use Pod::Checker;
podchecker(\*DATA);
__END__

=head1 NAME

INSTALL - Slash Installation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This document describes how to install Slash, versions 2.2 and
pre-releases of 2.3.  For instructions on installation or upgrade of
previous versions of Slash, see the INSTALL document included with
those distributions.

These instructions have only been tested on Linux. Installation under
BSD and other Unix OSes should work similarly, but there are problems
with the Makefile and installtion under some non-Linux OSes.  Feel free
to submit bug reports (or better, patches) for any such problems.
We've had reports of the 1.0.x version of Slash running on Windows,
but have done no testing and have no further information, and have no
information about Slash 2 running on Windows.

PostgreSQL was supported (alpha-quality) in earlier versions of Slash
2, but has not been updated at all since late 2001.  At this point,
Slash works only with MySQL.

Slash can always be downloaded from SourceForge.net, from the FTP site,
and via CVS.

	http://sf.net/projects/slashcode/
	ftp://ftp.slashcode.com//pub/slashcode/
	http://cvs.slashcode.com/

See the SourceForge.net page for patches and bug reports.

=head2 Which version should I use?

If you are using Slash 2.2.5 or before, including all 2.1.x, 2.0.x, and
1.x versions, you should upgrade to the latest version in the 2.2 tree,
2.2.6, as soon as possible.  There are security issues with previous
versions.  You should not install previous versions.

As of this writing (June 2003), our last official release (2.2.6) was
some time ago and many features have been added since.  We have not
yet released 2.3.0.  If you want to use more recent code, check out CVS
versions from cvs.slashcode.com.  If you are installing a new Slash site,
you probably do not want to use the very latest CVS, but you probably
do want to use the latest "R_" tag available in CVS.  See L<"VERSIONS">,
"CVS tags", below, for advice on choosing and maintaining a CVS installation.

=head2 Important Note

We know you want to get right into the installation, but you probably
want to read this whole document first.  Notably, the software and
hardware requirements are given later on in the L<"REQUIREMENTS">
section, which you probably want to go read now, to check for potential
problems.

Also, you will find information on upgrading a Slash site (which can be
tricky);  uninstalling;  and troubleshooting for common problems.


=head1 INSTALLATION

=head2 Installation Notes

=over 4

=item *

For slashd (see F<utils/slash>, which starts slashd),
mod_perl (see F<httpd/httpd.conf>), and MySQL, we set all processes
to run in GMT.  Then it is easy to convert dates to whatever the
user's local time is.  If you have date offset problems, check that
all of these are properly set to run in GMT.  Your server(s) do not
actually need to have their operating systems set to GMT (ours aren't),
but if you want to do that, it won't hurt anything.

=item *

You cannot have different versions of the Slash modules installed for
different sites on the same Apache server.  (Well, if you want to, you
can try the Apache::PerlVINC module, but this is B<not> recommended for
performance reasons. Slash is designed to have one shared core of code
for all Slash sites on a system.)

=item *

All of the installation steps below should be executed as root.


=back


=head2 Installation Procedure

There are six steps to installation.  Skip the parts you already
have installed (making sure you have the correct versions).  Make sure
to read the special note about Apache / mod_perl installation.

=over 4

=item 1.

B<Install MySQL.>

Please refer to MySQL documentation for compilation
and/or installation notes for any questions with this process.

Slash requires that your MySQL server run in the GMT timezome.  Find your
global my.cnf file (probably C</etc/my.cnf> or C</etc/mysql/my.cnf>),
locate the C<[mysqld_safe]> (or C<[safe_mysqld]>) group, and add this line
to it:

	timezone = GMT

Start MySQL (it must be running for the installation of Perl modules
and Slash).

Create a database to be used by Slash.

Create a username/password that can access that database (by
default, we normally set the user to have all permissions, but that
might not be appropriate for your site; make sure that you have
at least privileges to select, insert, update, delete, create,
drop, index and alter).


=item 2.

B<Install perl.>

perl is likely already installed on your machine; make sure its
version is at least the minimum required (see L<"REQUIREMENTS">).


=item 3.

B<Install Apache and mod_perl.>

B<You MUST install mod_perl and Apache as directed here>.  OK, that is
not strictly true, but unless you really know what you're doing,
just assume it's true. If you already have mod_perl installed,
it is probably not configured properly to work with Slash and
you will have to rebuild it.

If you are using the provided httpd.conf file from the slash
distribution, and find that Apache is giving you errors, chances
are mod_perl is not installed correctly, and you need to build
it from scratch. Not following this direction is one of the most
common reasons we see for a Slash install not working.

Of course, if you have your own Apache modules or build options,
you will need to modify the instructions here appropriately.

First, untar apache and mod_perl.  Then, go to the mod_perl directory,
and have mod_perl build and install apache for you:

	perl Makefile.PL APACHE_SRC=/where_you_have_the_source DO_HTTPD=1 \
		USE_APACI=1 PERL_MARK_WHERE=1 EVERYTHING=1 \
		APACHE_PREFIX=/where_apache_will_be_installed
	make
	make test
	make install

B<NOTE>: You may be unsuccessful with C<make test> if the perl
modules are not yet installed. However, some Perl modules will
not install without Apache and mod_perl installed. If you wish,
come back and run C<make test> after installing here, and then
installing the Perl modules, to make sure everything is OK. Also,
as of January 2002, a C<make test> has thrown spurious errors for
several months because of a persistent minor bug; if you see
"Can't locate object method 'new' via package 'URI::URL'",
read this:

L<http:E<sol>E<sol>groups.google.comE<sol>groups?threadm=3B82CE4D.8BF0C1D0%40spamless.genwax.com>

B<NOTE>: If you know what you're doing, Slash will work with a DSO
Apache. Be sure you're on the latest versions of Apache and
mod_perl and remember PERL_MARK_WHERE=1 and EVERYTHING=1.

=item 4.

B<Install the Perl modules.>

Slash is powerful and complex, and, rather than reinvent the wheel, it
often relies on CPAN modules.  Open-source code reuse has many advantages.
One disadvantage is that installing all those modules can be tricky,
as you may be about to find out.

You could install each module in F<Bundle/Slash.pm> by hand, but this
would be time-consuming.  Instead, you'll want to install the bundle
C<Bundle::Slash> using CPAN.

=over 4

B<IMPORTANT NOTES (read through these first)>:

=over 4

=item B<Overall comment about CPAN module failure>

It is possible that upon typing "install Bundle::Slash", you will have
one or more modules fail to install on the first try.  The rest of the
modules will be successfully installed but some won't.  In that case
you will want to fix the problems and retype "install Bundle::Slash"
to make sure everything proceeds smoothly.  Once that command gives you
just a long list of "Foo::Bar is up to date," you are done.  Until that
point, you are not done;  you must resolve the errors.

=item B<Old Version of Bundle::Slash>

If you have previously installed Bundle::Slash, you will want
to install it again, but you will need to delete the existing
version.  Go to your F<.cpan/Bundle> directory (usually
F<~/.cpan/Bundle/>) and remove F<Slash.pm>.

=item B<Overactive CPAN>

With some versions of the CPAN module, the module will try to
download and install the latest version of Perl.  Watch what
the module is doing; if it begins to download an entire perl
distribution, interrupt it (hit ctrl-C) until it stops, then try
again with the CPAN module.  This should not be an issue in the latest
version of Bundle::Slash.

=item B<Uninstalling Old Modules>

Sometimes, you will be installing a newer version of a module that exists
elsewhere on the system.  You probably want to tell the CPAN module to
automatically remove older files.  To do that from the CPAN shell, type:

	cpan> o conf make_install_arg UNINST=1

And if you want that to be CPAN's default from now on, add:

	cpan> o conf commit

=item B<Automatically Installing Dependencies>

Some of the modules in Bundle::Slash require other modules.  We have
not put some of those other modules in Bundle::Slash because, if those
requirements change in the future, we don't want to make future Slash
sites install more than they have to.

If you see this:

	---- Unsatisfied dependencies detected during [FOO/Bar-1.23.tar.gz] -----
	    Foobar::Baz
	Shall I follow them and prepend them to the queue
	of modules we are processing right now? [yes] 

That's normal;  just hit return.

If it annoys you to have to do this, edit the C<prerequisites_policy>
field of your CPAN/Config.pm file.  Or, just do this to change it to
automatically follow dependencies and commit the change:

	cpan> o conf prerequisites_policy follow
	cpan> o conf commit

=item B<Additional Libraries>

You must have certain libraries existing on your system before
building, for Compress::Zlib and XML::Parser (see L<"REQUIREMENTS">).

=item B<BSD Systems>

If running BSD, also install the BSD::Resource module.  We have
heard reports of problems running Slash on BSD, but you are
welcome to try;  patches would be lovely.

=item B<Alternate DBs>

Slash currently requires MySQL.  While our design allows for
supporting multiple DBs, B<actually> supporting anything other
than MySQL has fallen by the wayside since the release of Slash
version 2.0.  We have heard almost zero demand for any other
database, and this isn't a feature we need ourselves, so it's
not a high priority. Patches and feedback are, of course,
always welcome.

=item B<DBIx::Password>

When installing DBIx::Password, you will be asked for various
information, the same information used to create the database
and database user in Step 1.  You will also be asked for a
B<virtual user> name, which will be the identifier for all of
this data.  You can just use the name of your site,
or any other alphanumeric string.  You will use this virtual
user name in other places, so do not forget it. If you don't
understand what you're doing here, don't fake it; this is a
common reason we see for Slash installations failing.

=item B<Documentation>

To read the README for any module, before or after installing:

	cpan> readme MODULE

To read the documentation of any of the modules, once they have been
installed, type C<perldoc MODULE> at the command line.

See L<perlmodinstall> for more information on installing perl modules.

=back

=back

Now that you have read the above notes, you're ready to install the
perl modules.

To use the CPAN module, invoke the CPAN shell:

	perl -MCPAN -e shell

(Or, you may have the unix command "cpan" already available, which
does the same thing.)

If this is the first time you've invoked CPAN, you will be asked to
configure it.

Next, install some important networking modules.  Doing this first is
optional but, if there are problems with these modules, you'll want to
resolve them before moving on to the rest of the installation:

	cpan> install Bundle::LWP

Make sure all those modules are installed and up to date before
proceeding.  Note that Net::Cmd has a history of being a little broken
in its tests;  if it fails on tests 8 and 9 of t/require, then it's OK;
just do C<force install Net::Cmd> and repeat C<install Bundle::LWP>.

After the LWP has been installed and configured successfully, C<exit>
the CPAN, reinvoke it with the C<perl -MCPAN -e shell> command, and
install Bundle::Slash:

	cpan> install Bundle::Slash

This will be a long process.  Several modules will ask to be configured
during this process.  Here are some tips:

=over 4

=item B<DBI>

Don't worry about the threading warning.

=item B<DBIx::Password>

See IMPORTANT NOTES above.

=item B<Apache::Test> and B<Apache::Cookie>

You will need C<httpd> and C<apxs> in your $PATH, and even if they
are there, you will probably see the lengthy error that starts "Apache
cannot spawn child processes as 'root'".  This is because, ironically,
Apache::Test's self-tests are a colossal pain to actually run.
Personally I just C<force install Apache::Cookie> which is lame but
solves the problem.

=item B<Template>

The Template Toolkit is a complex install.  Try accepting all the
defaults and see if it works.  It has 90 test scripts with over 2000
tests, and installation will be halted if just 1 of these tests fails.
Do a C<look Template> and try your best to resolve the issues.
The F<README> includes a URL to the mailing list archives, where you
may find help.  If you're getting 100 errors, you need to fix them,
but if you're down to 1 or 2 you can't fix, we suggest you make a note
of what the failures were and just C<force install Template>.

=back

If you have problems, feel free to re-run C<install Bundle::Slash>.  It
will safely skip anything already installed.

If you are feeling lucky and are in a big hurry, you might try C<force
install Bundle::Slash>, which will skip all tests for all modules --
but if you do this and later things start to fail, you're on your own,
don't complain.

Again:  once you are able to do C<install Bundle::Slash> and see nothing
but a long list of modules that are "up to date," you are done.  Until you
see that, you are not done with this step!

If you wish to take full advantage of Slash, there are some plugins
not installed and vars not turned on by default, which provide
additional features, improve performance, or help in testing, which
require additional perl modules and sometimes non-perl libraries.
See the listing at the bottom of Bundle/Slash.pm, and see also the
tips in plugins/Admin/README, plugins/HumanConf/INSTALL-NOTES, and
plugins/Stats/README.

=item 5.

B<Install Slash.>

Unpack the distribution and go to the new directory that
creates, and type:

	make
	make install

B<Note>: you will want the GNU versions of fileutils (version
4.0 recommended, for cp and install) and make.  Older versions of
install, and make and cp from other systems, might not work.

There are a few options to C<make> and C<make install> you may
want to change.

	option		default			purpose
	==========================================================
	SLASH_PREFIX	/usr/local/slash	Location for
						installed files
	INIT		/etc or /etc/rc.d	Location for init
						scripts
	USER		nobody			User to own files
	GROUP		nobody			Group to own files
	CP		cp			Name of or path to
						alternate `cp`
	INSTALL		install			Name of or path to
						alternate `install`

(USER and GROUP will also be changed later on a per-site basis,
in step 6. while running F<install-slashsite>.)

So, for example, you might type (although the default SLASH_PREFIX
is I<strongly> recommended):

	make SLASH_PREFIX=/home/slash
	make install SLASH_PREFIX=/home/slash

When done, a configuration file for Apache will be created at
F<$SLASH_PREFIX/httpd/slash.conf>.  You can put its contents into your
httpd.conf, or you can just C<Include> it in your httpd.conf.  You
must do one or the other!

B<WARNING!>

Please be aware that if you include F<$SLASH_PREFIX/slash.conf>
or F<$SLASH_PREFIX/sites/sitename/sitename.conf> more than once,
or if this file shares contents with directives in httpd.conf,
that your Slash site WILL break. The directives in
F<$SLASH_PREFIX/slash.conf> should be run only ONCE in any any
site context.  Read through F<$SLASH_PREFIX/slash.conf> to make
sure it all looks proper.

=item 6.

B<Install your Slash site.>

Go to your installation directory (by default, F</usr/local/slash>)
and execute (where C<VIRTUAL_USER> is the name of the virtual
user given in the DBIx::Password distribution):

	bin/install-slashsite -u VIRTUAL_USER

The program will prompt for answers to several configuration questions.
Answer the questions.  When done, another configuration
file will be created at F<$SLASH_PREFIX/$SITENAME/$SITENAME.conf>.
You can put its contents unto your httpd.conf, or you can just C<Include>
it in your httpd.conf.

B<NOTE>: Read the message printed at the end of running install_slashsite.
Failure to pay attention here is another common reason we see for Slash
installations not working.

=item 7.

B<Start it up.>

After installation of the site is done, and Apache has been stopped
and started (do NOT try to restart Apache, but do a full stop and
start), run slashd.  This should be done via the init script:

	/etc/init.d/slash start

slashd is the daemon that runs routine maintenance on Slash sites,
including sending out daily mailings, cleaning up the database,
and updating stories.  The init script above will start up an
individual slashd daemon process process for each installed site.

=back


=head1 INSTALLATION OPTIONS

=head2 Multiple Servers

You can, of course, have a separate database server from your Slash
server.  Further, you can have multiple web servers for one Slash site.
Slashdot, for instance, has one primary server with all of the code
(Apache, perl, etc.), and it runs slashd and NFS.  Each
web server then mounts the code read-only over NFS.  Some notes:

=over 4

=item *

Make sure the MySQL server allows the user to log in from each web
server, and the NFS server.

=item *

Make sure, if you use the same httpd tree on all machines, that
the httpd.conf is listening to the proper IP addresses.  This can be
done by putting all of the IP addresses in the conf file, or by having
a separate Listen file on each machine.  Similarly, make sure that
each web server's logfiles unique to each machine, not written to the
NFS volumes.

=back


=head2 Virtual Hosts

Slash has support for virtual hosts, so you can have multiple
Slash sites on one machine.  Simply execute step 6 in the install
process for each Slash site (after adding a new virtual user to
DBIx::Password for each).


=head2 SSL

In Slash, there are two variables for the root URL of the site.
B<absolutedir> is the full URL, including protocol, while B<rootdir>
is the URL without protocol:

	absolutedir	http://slashcode.com
	rootdir		//slashcode.com

B<absolutedir> is used only for creating external links to the site
(such as in RSS files).  B<rootdir> is used for internal links; that
way, you can use the same HTML pages for SSL and non-SSL.  You don't
have to do anything special to the code or preferences to allow it to
work with SSL by itself, SSL and non-SSL together, or non-SSL by itself.


=head2 Non-Root

It is possible to install and run everything here without root.

It is not easy.  If you don't know your flavor of unix intimately, we
don't recommend trying this.

Describing the process for a non-root install would take up significant
space and time, having to account for differences in various systems,
and all the workarounds necessary for it to work.  We don't support it,
and we're not going to document it.

If you must have a non-root install, consult the various documentation
for Apache, MySQL, and perl about running and installing without root
access.  Then, for Slash, you need to set the make variables PREFIX,
SLASH_PREFIX, and INIT appropriately for your needs.

B<Note>: Slash sites (or, more accurately, Apache + mod_perl and MySQL) take
up a lot of system resources.  It is I<not advisable> for anyone to
run Slash on any system, without the permission of the administrator
of that system.


=head2 Separate Image Server

Those of you with infinite RAM will have no problems hosting as many Slash
sites as you want on a single box running just Apache.  Those whose RAM
is limited may be able to keep your MaxClients down to a reasonable level
to avoid going into swap, and still not lock clients out of your website,
by using a separate webserver process to deliver your images.

This is possible with any website, of course, not just a Slash site, but
because Slash's httpd clients all have mod_perl, a lot of perl modules,
and a lot of templates all compiled into RAM, they are especially heavy.
While serving an image may take only a few milliseconds, which would you
rather have tied up on your computer for those milliseconds, 25 MB of RAM
or 5 MB?

Slashdot, and some other Slash sites we're hosting, are currently using
boa 0.94.14rc17 (L<http:E<sol>E<sol>www.boa.orgE<sol>>) for images.
Boa is fast and has a small footprint.  It's easy to build
(C<./configure && make>) but you have to install it yourself by
copying the binary and mkdir'ing a little tree wherever you want it.
We did roughly this.  Your mileage may vary.  This sets up an alternate
server just for images on port 8080, and sets Slash's imagedir var to
point to it.  Your apache will still serve images at the old URLs if
anyone requests them, but nobody will, because your site's pages will
all point to boa:

	# Install boa and set up its files.
	cd /usr/local/src/boa-0.94.14rc17
	./configure && make
	mkdir /usr/local/boa
	mkdir /usr/local/boa/bin
	mkdir /usr/local/boa/htdocs
	cp -a src/{boa,boa_indexer,webindex.pl} /usr/local/boa/bin/
	ln -s /usr/local/slash/site/mysite/htdocs/images /usr/local/boa/htdocs/images.mysite.com
	touch /usr/local/boa/htdocs/favicon.ico

	# Set up and edit boa conf file.
	cp examples/boa.conf /usr/local/boa/
	# At this point we patched /usr/local/boa/boa.conf, changing
	# Port to 8080, ServerName to www.mysite.com, DocumentRoot to
	# /usr/local/boa/htdocs, and commenting out the DirectoryIndex,
	# DirectoryMaker, Alias and ScriptAlias directives.

	# Start boa.
	/usr/local/boa/bin/boa

	# In mysql client:
	# UPDATE vars SET value='//www.mysite.com:8080/images.mysite.com' WHERE name='imagedir';
	# UPDATE stories SET writestatus='dirty';

	# Restart apache, slashd;  let slashd rewrite .shtml files both
	# recent and archived.

You'll probably also want to create a script in your init.d and rcN.d
directories so boa runs at startup along with apache.


=head1 UPGRADING

B<These upgrade procedures are still in testing.  Please read them
entirely before beginning.  We are not responsible for any loss of
data or functionality.>

=head2 Slash 2.0 -> Slash 2.2

Slash 2.2 is a major upgrade from Slash 2.0.  It takes a little bit
of work to get it going.

=over 4

=item 1.

BACK EVERYTHING UP ON THE EXISTING SITE.

=item 2.

Install Bundle::Slash.  If you have done so previously, follow
the instructions for removing the existing version of
Bundle::Slash before proceeding.

=item 3.

Apply this patch to your installed Slash::Install module (probably
easiest to hand-edit the file):

  --- Install.pm~ Wed May  9 15:02:34 2001
  +++ Install.pm  Fri Sep 28 12:44:41 2001
  @@ -116,7 +116,7 @@
   sub writeTemplateFile {
          my($self, $filename, $template) = @_;
          open(FILE, '>' . $filename) or die "$! unable to open file $filename to write to";
  -       for (keys %$template) {
  +       for (qw(section description title page lang name template seclev)) {
                  next if ($_ eq 'tpid');
                  print FILE "__${_}__\n";
                  $template->{$_} =~ s/\015\012/\n/g;

=item 4.

Run C<template-check> on your site, and make a note of every change
you've made to the standard templates.  You will need to make those
changes again, manually, later.

This is unfortunately unavoidable, because templates include code
that changes significantly between releases.  It is recommended
that you compile your changes into a THEME so they may easily be
updated and applied.

=item 5.

Stop Apache and slashd on the target machine(s).

=item 6

Install Slash.

B<If installing on a different machine ...>

=over 4

=item 1

Install slash 2.2 as normal.  Do not yet run install-slashsite.

=item 2

Make sure that from this machine, you can access not only the database
used for this installation, but the one used for the old installation.
You may wish to, instead of accessing that database directly if it
on another machine, dumping it and adding it to your new database server
under a different name.

=item 3

Add a virtual user to DBIx::Password for the old installation.

=back


B<If installing on the same machine ...>

=over 4

=item 1

Create a new database for the new installation.  You cannot
use the same database for both installations.

=item 2

Add a new virtual user to DBIx::Password for the new database,
and update (and flush) MySQL privileges appropriately.  You cannot
use the same virtual user for both installations.

=item 3

It is highly recommended that you move F</usr/local/slash>
(or whatever your installation directory is) to a new location,
such as F</usr/local/slash-old>, and install a clean slash 2.2
installation.  However, this is not necessary to do; you may install
slash 2.2 on top of the slash 2.0 installation.

The reason to not move anything is that you can keep any customizations
done (images, additional scripts and plugins, static files, etc.).
The reason to move it is so that everything is clean.  It is highly
recommended that you move it, and then manually copy back the pieces
you want.

=item 4

In any event, either move the old directory, or don't, and
then install slash 2.2 as normal.  Do not yet run install-slashsite.

=back


=item 7.

If you have plugins or themes from the old installation to install,
copy them over now.  Warning: some plugins and themes might need to be
ported first.  You may wish to deal with them later if they are not
yet ported to slash 2.2.

=item 8.

Run install-slashsite.  Use the new virtual user.

=item 9.

Copy over any files (images, FAQs, etc.) that need to be copied, if necessary.

=item 10.

Run update script, F<utils/slash2toslash2.2>.  B<Read its instructions!>

=item 11.

Update templates.

=item 12.

Doublecheck Apache configs (httpd/slash.conf, site/sitename/sitename.conf).
These configs have changed from the last version.  Read the comments and set
them up as desired.

=item 13.

Start Apache.

=item 14.

Start slashd.

=back


=head2 Slash 2.2.x -> Slash 2.2.y

Read all of this section before doing any of it.

The first thing to do is to, as per the instructions below under
INSTALLATION, unpack the latest distribution and run make and make
install with the proper arguments.

=over 4

=item Overwriting Changes

This process will overwrite any customizations of your installed
modules, or customizations of the installed scripts in
/usr/local/slash/themes/ and /usr/local/slash/plugins/ (for themes
and plugins that come with Slash).  If you ran install-slashsite
with the default option of using symlinks, and made customizations
to the originals instead of breaking the symlink and copying the file
over, then this will overwrite your changes.

If you did modify the original instead of a copy, then break the
symlink, copy over the original (as modified), and then continue.
The original will be copied over by the new version, and your modified
copy will remain intact.

=item Templates

With every update, there are changes to templates.  But most people
will modify their templates.  A relatively simple way to see what
has changed is to use template-tool and template-check.  This
procedure should help most users deal with the integration of new
templates into an existing site (it will only work with the slashcode
theme, but a simple modification to the code of template-check
can fix that).

=over 4

=item Dump

Use template-tool to dump your templates into an empty directory.

	% mkdir templates
	% cd templates
	% template-tool -u VIRTUAL_USER -d

(Defaults to current directory.)

=item Compare

Use template-check to compare installed templates in
/usr/local/slash/themes/slashcode/ and /usr/local/slash/plugins/ against
the templates that have been dumped.

	% template-check -u VIRTUAL_USER

(Defaults to current directory.)

This will use diff to show you the differences.  You can either go
into the templates with a text editor (in another window) and change
the dumped ones by hand, edit them by hand in the Template Editor
via the web browser, or take a note of every template you want to
copy over your existing template.

After each directory of templates is done, hit "q" to continue to
the next plugin/theme.

=item Sync

If you made changes by hand via the web, you are done.  Otherwise, take
the list of templates to update, and pass the full filenames to
template-tool (this will either be the templates you modified by hand
in the dump directory, or the unmodified ones in the installation
directories). You might need to put each filename in quotes because of
the ";" character in the filenames.  This will overwrite your existing
template with the new template.

	% template-tool -u VIRTUAL_USER -s LIST

=back

=back

=head2 Slash 2.2.6 -E<gt> Slash CVS

Use the sql/mysql/upgrades file;  see L<"VERSIONS">, "CVS tags", below.

=head2 Slash 1.0 -E<gt> Slash 2.2

Please read the complete documentation of F<utils/slash1toslash2.2>.
It is a program that will convert your database from Slash 1.0
to a new Slash 2.2 database.  The program documentation (which can
be read with F<perldoc>) details exactly what process it follows
to do the conversion, so you can attempt to do it by hand if you
prefer.



=head1 REQUIREMENTS

=head2 Software Requirements

Below, we list the main software components needed.  The
recommended version is noted, along with the earliest version
that has been tested (or is expected) to work.  The earliest
versions are not necessarily supported, but should work.
perl 5.6.0 is supported, but MySQL 3.22 is not.


=over 4

=item perl

Version 5.6.1 (5.6.0). [NOTE: perl 5.6.0 may have some problems.
5.6.1 is recommended.]

	http://www.cpan.org/

We believe everything works fine with perl 5.8.x, and have several small
Slash installations on it, but we have not tested Unicode thoroughly,
nor have we run Slashdot on it yet.  If you're going with 5.8.x, we
suggest 5.8.1 or later, as there are numerous small bugs in 5.8.0.

=item MySQL

Version 4.0.12 (3.23.42).

	http://www.mysql.com/

=item Apache

Version 1.3.29 (1.3.6).

	http://httpd.apache.org/

B<Do not> use Apache 1.3.28.  It has a nasty bug in it that causes
Slash to talk to the web browser as though it is the database server.

=item mod_perl

Version 1.29 (1.21).

	http://perl.apache.org/

=item Sendmail or other transport daemon

Refer to your OS distribution.


=item Perl module distributions

See http://search.cpan.org/ and http://www.cpan.org/
to get each module individually; however, we recommend
you download them using the CPAN module.  (See L<"INSTALLATION">,
item 4, "Install the Perl modules.")

The latest version of each module is recommended.

For Compress::Zlib, the zlib development library is required.
For XML::Parser, the expat library is required.
If they are not present on the system already, download and
install them before installing the modules.

	http://www.gzip.org/zlib/
	http://sf.net/projects/expat/

On Debian Linux, try:

	apt-get install zlib1g zlib1g-dev libexpat1 libexpat1-dev

The current list of required perl modules can be found in the
F<Bundle/Slash.pm> file.

=back


=head2 Hardware Requirements

There are no specific hardware requirements.

Apache (with mod_perl) and MySQL both take up a lot of RAM. Running a
complete system with 128MB might be possible, if you do some tuning of
the configuration, but a practical minimum of 256MB is recommended, and
you will be much happier with at least 1GB of RAM.  See L<"INSTALLATION
OPTIONS">, "Separate Image Server" for tips on saving some RAM.

Disk space depends on how busy you expect the site to be.  Slash keeps
a small database -- even Slashdot.org's DB compresses down to under 2 GB.
The disk files as installed are under 0.5 GB, and grow predictably as
stories and comments are added (keep an eye on the F<site/foo/logs/>
directory, too).  A minimum of 1 GB of disk is recommended.

Necessary processor speed is also dependent on how busy the site is.
Pentium 133 or equivalent might work, but a Pentium II/400 or better
is recommended.

For the curious, Slashdot (as of September 2001) runs on nine machines:
nine webservers (each is Pentium III/600, 1GB RAM, 9GB hard drive), one
NFS server (600MHz PIII, 1GB RAM), and three database servers
(quad 600MHz PIII, 4GB RAM).  One database server is
live, one is a replicated backup, and a third is for doing live searches
and performance-intensive SELECTs by daemons etc.

However, this is certainly overkill for most sites (and possibly even
overkill for Slashdot).  slashcode.com runs on two web servers and one
NFS/database server.  Many sites can run fine on just one machine for
everything (we use a minimum of two web server machines on every site
for load balancing and redundancy).


=head1 VERSIONS

Each version of slash has a code name, and the files on CVS for that
version are tagged with that name.  The current release is always
MAIN.  The versioning scheme is as Linux and Perl are,
revision.version.subversion.  version is even for releases, and odd
for development.  The codename applies to the development version
and subsequent release.

For example, 1.0.11 is a normal release, while 1.1.0 is the first
development release for what will be the next release (either 1.2
or 2.0).

The CVS repository is tagged with version numbers, so to get release
1.0.3, use tag "v1_0_3_0".  The last number (in this case a zero) will
be incremented during development ("v1_0_3_1", "v1_0_3_2", etc.) until
the next release.

=head2 Codenames

=over 4

=item v1.0

beast

=item v2.0

bender

=item v2.2

fry

=back

=head2 Security note

We are no longer releasing bugfixes, even for security, for the 1.0
or 2.0 versions, and do not recommend their use.  If we become aware
of security issues in the 2.2 tree, we will release another version.
For this reason, if you are using any version of Slash in 2.2.x or
earlier, we recommend you upgrade to the latest version of 2.2, which
as of this writing (June 2003) is 2.2.6.

=head2 CVS tags

Our development of 2.3/2.4 has gone on exceptionally long without a
tarball release of 2.3.0.  Most Slash hosting sites are choosing to
follow CVS instead of waiting, and we encourage this.

Installation of the latest CVS (as of June 2003) is almost identical
to the installation of 2.2.

You probably do not want to use the
very latest CVS, as the Slash developers are constantly updating it.
If you wish to live on the edge, try a T_2_3_0_x tag ("Testing in 2.3.0
branch" -- one or two of these are added every week, Slashdot uses them,
but they may have bugs).  If you are content with recent code that the
developers believe is likely to be free of major bugs, look for a recent
R_2_3_0_x cvs tag ("Release candidates for 2.3.0").

To upgrade from 2.2.x to the CVS tree, you will need to follow the
instructions in the sql/mysql/upgrades file.  At the moment, these are
just SQL commands you will need to issue, but read carefully because
you may have to use judgement and issue command-line commands and so on.
(We are working on a tool to automate this process.)  Once you are
upgraded to, or have installed, a given CVS tag, upgrading to later
CVS tags is simply a matter of following along in that file -- we append
as we go, and each T_* tag is clearly marked.

=head1 TROUBLESHOOTING COMMON INSTALLATION PROBLEMS

Here are some common reasons why Slash installations fail.

=over 4

=item *

Failure to build mod_perl with PERL_MARK_WHERE=1 EVERYTHING=1.

We emphasize this in the instructions for a reason. Go back and
reread the Installation Procedure, step 3.

=item *

Perl module installation troubles.

If you have a unix-like system with CPAN properly installed
and no serious firewall issues, perl module installation will
usually go pretty smoothly. Some modules will have overactive
testing code; for example, if your system lacks C<nslookup>, some
of the net-related modules will complain and refuse to install
themselves even though it isn't strictly speaking necessary.
If you suspect overactive testing, C<force install Foo::Bar> for
the offending module and then try C<install Bundle::Slash> again.

We list perl 5.6.0 as supported, but 5.6.1 is recommended.
If you're having CPAN installation troubles, upgrading to the
latest version will make life easier. Note that you'll want to
recompile mod_perl/Apache after upgrading perl.

=item *

Multiple Perls installed.

If you have more than one binary file named C<perl>, trouble
awaits. It's OK to have a C</usr/bin/perl5.00503> even after
installing 5.6.1, but if your C</usr/bin/perl> is a different
version from C</usr/local/bin/perl>, you may be in for a world of hurt.

=item *

httpd.conf errors.

After you C<install-slashsite>, you're told that you probably
want to add C<Include /usr/local/slash/httpd/slash.conf> to
its httpd.conf. Note that that file Include's your site-specific
conf file at /usr/local/slash/site/sitename/sitename.conf.
One way or another those site-specific directives have to be
processed by Apache.

Are you doing virtual hosting? Make sure you've set it up
correctly.

=item *

Database authentication issues.

For each dynamic page your Slash site delivers, an Apache httpd
child needs to connect to your MySQL server. There's a chain of
access to get from Apache to MySQL and a number of places where it
can break:

=over 4

=item *

The Apache child httpd process needs to have read access to
your DBIx/Password.pm module file. That process is probably
running as "nobody:nobody" (or similar). If you don't know
where DBIx/Password.pm was installed, try:

# perl -MDBIx::Password -le 'print $INC{"DBIx/Password.pm"}'

If that fails, it's probably not installed; check also

# locate DBIx/Password.pm | grep perl

Make sure the module is installed and that "nobody:nobody"
can read its .pm file. If you've sharing that file over the
network, did you set up ownership correctly?

(If you are concerned about security on a multiuser system,
first, don't let people on your system you don't trust, and
second, you may wish to chmod DBIx/Password.pm 750, give it
a group, and set Apache to run with that group.)

=item *

The DBIx/Password.pm file needs to be correctly configured.
Open it up with a text editor and make sure $virtual1 contains
an entry for your Slash virtual user that is correct in every
respect: driver, (MySQL) username, database, password, host,
and connect string. These are the values you typed in when
you installed the module but maybe you made a typo.

If you have only one machine for your whole setup, host can be
"localhost". Otherwise use an IP number.

=item *

Network connectivity.

Can the Apache machine connect to the MySQL machine?

=item *

MySQL permissions.

The username field in your DBIx/Password.pm file refers to
a MySQL user which you set up in step 1 of the Installation
Procedure. Make sure this user has permission to connect
to the Slash site's database you also set up in step 1
(and check it from the Apache machine over the network too).
If you don't fully understand MySQL permissions, don't guess;
start your reading here:

L<http:E<sol>E<sol>www.mysql.comE<sol>documentationE<sol>mysqlE<sol>bychapterE<sol>manual_MySQL_Database_Administration.html#Privilege_system>

=item *

mod_gzip

Are you finding that POST operations fail?  Have you compiled in mod_gzip?
mod_gzip 1.3.19.1a doesn't handle incoming POST very well, with the result
that our User.pm handler() gets called twice, and the second time through,
there's no more data on STDIN, so your form is empty.  We use this patch
to make it ignore POSTs:

	--- mod_gzip_BROKEN_FOR_POST.c  2003-09-26 14:26:36.000000000 -0700
	+++ mod_gzip.c                  2003-10-06 11:39:45.000000000 -0700
	@@ -2155,12 +2155,15 @@
	     ap_table_setn( r->notes,"mod_gzip_result",ap_pstrdup(r->pool,"DECLINED:UNHANDLED_REDIR"));
	    }
	  else
	    {
	     ap_table_setn( r->notes,"mod_gzip_result",ap_pstrdup(r->pool,"DECLINED:INIT1"));
	    }
	+   if ( r->method_number == M_POST ) {
	+       return DECLINED;
	+   }

	  ap_table_setn( r->notes,"mod_gzip_input_size", ap_pstrdup(r->pool,"0"));
	  ap_table_setn( r->notes,"mod_gzip_output_size",ap_pstrdup(r->pool,"0"));
	  ap_table_setn( r->notes,"mod_gzip_compression_ratio",ap_pstrdup(r->pool,"0"));

	  #endif

Or just use mod_gzip 1.3.26.1a and omit POST from the list of methods
it handles, in your httpd.conf:

	mod_gzip_handle_methods GET

=back

=item *

Make sure you don't confuse the different types of "users":

=over 4

=item *

Apache user -- a unix system user account, e.g. "nobody";

=item *

DBIx::Password virtual user -- SlashVirtualUser directive;

=item *

MySQL user -- DBIx::Password virtual user field, points to
a database user.

=back

If slashd doesn't seem to be working, check its log and make sure
it has permission to write its files. It is probably running as
your Apache user "nobody", and if that user doesn't have write
permission to your web directories and/or .shtml and .rss files
and so on, slashd's current behavior is to log an error and die.
(If you want to make slashd run as a different unix system user,
edit the second field in C</usr/local/slash/slash.sites>.)

=back

If you've doublechecked all this, you're sure you followed the
directions, and it still doesn't work, stop in IRC #slash on
irc.slashcode.com and ask your question. Someone there may know
the answer.

If you are trying to install Slash from someone else's package,
maybe a BSD package, or an RPM that someone built, or by a Debian
apt-get command -- good luck to you, we hope it goes well, we love
packages, they're great when they work.  But if installation
fails, complain to the package maintainers, not us.  For those
who download our tarball and follow our instructions carefully,
installation should go smoothly.

=head1 UNINSTALLING

If you want to uninstall a site, there are two steps you must
follow:

=over 4

=item 1.

Stop slashd with C</etc/init.d/slash stop> (C</etc/rc.d/init.d/slash stop>
for Red Hat systems).  Then edit C</usr/local/slash/slash.sites> to remove
the line referencing the site you wish to uninstall.  Then restart slashd
with C</etc/init.d/slash start>.

=item 2.

Edit your Apache httpd.conf file so that the directives for the site's
VirtualHost are not included. If you did the standard install, that
file probably C<Include>s C</usr/local/slash/httpd/slash.conf>, which
C<Include>s C</usr/local/slash/yoursitename/yoursitename.conf>,
so you'll want to delete or comment out the C<Include> line
in the file C</usr/local/slash/httpd/slash.conf>.  Restart Apache
with C</usr/local/apache/bin/apachectl stop ; sleep 10 ;
/usr/local/apache/bin/apachectl start>.

=back

There are also five optional steps you may follow:

=over 4

=item 3.

Back up your site's database, if it has anything you care
about: C<mysqldump -umysqlusername -p sitedatabasename E<gt>
/some/dir/sitedb.sql>.

=item 4.

Drop your site's database: C<echo DROP DATABASE sitedatabasename |
mysql -umysqlusername -p>.

=item 5.

Remove the virtual user for your site's database from the DBIx::Password
file, whose location you can probably find with:

# perl -MDBIx::Password -le 'print $INC{"DBIx/Password.pm"}'

=item 6.

Back up your site's html documents, if you care about any of them:
C<cp -pvR /usr/local/slash/site/yoursitename/htdocs /some/dir/htdocs>.

=item 7.

Delete your site's directory tree: C<rm -rf
/usr/local/slash/site/yoursitename>.

=back

=head1 VERSION

$Id$
