#!perl -w
# run this document through perl to check its syntax
use Pod::Checker;
podchecker(\*DATA);
__END__

=head1 NAME

README - Slash Readme

=head1 WARNING

This release is B<BETA> software.  It is not intended or recommended
for production use, and is constantly changing.  Please use this only
for development and testing purposes.

The upgrade procedures are available (L<INSTALL>).  Standard
disclaimer applies.  Please test them if you are so inclined, and
let us know how they work for you.


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Slash -- Slashdot Like Automated Storytelling Homepage -- is the code
that runs Slashdot.  More than that, however, Slash is an architecture
for putting together web sites.  It comes with functionality for posting
articles, conducting polls, having discussions, and more; but it can be
extended in innumerable ways.

Slash is written in Perl, and is built on top of Apache and mod_perl. It
requires a database backend, though the only well-supported database
used with it is MySQL (more databases will become well-supported as time
goes on; PostgreSQL support is already well on its way).  Slash is
fast, scalable, and secure (as evidenced by one of the best test cases
you could have, running Slashdot itself).

Through a plugin system, developers can add functionality to Slash. 
Through themes and templates (which are written using Template Toolkit),
the look and feel of a Slash site can be customized.

See F<INSTALL> for information about B<installing> Slash, including hardware
and software requirements.  Read that document carefully, and follow the
instructions as precisely as possible.

Also see F<INSTALL> for information on B<upgrading> from previous versions
of Slash.

As noted in the FAQ, please send any bug reports, and subscribe to
mailing lists, at Slash's SourceForge.net site.

	http://sf.net/projects/slashcode/


=head1 DOCUMENTATION

The F<.pod> documentation included with Slash can be read with the
C<perldoc> program, included with perl, or translated using one of
the many C<pod2*> translators.

The documentation is also available online on the Slash FAQ.

=over 4

=item Slash FAQ

Basic information about Slash, how to contact the developers,
and a lot more.

http://slashcode.com/faq.shtml


=item Template Toolkit (version 2)

For more information on how to write templates, see the Template
Toolkit site.

http://www.template-toolkit.org/


=item RSS

For more information on RSS 1.0, and the RSS Slash module.

http://purl.org/rss/1.0/

http://purl.org/rss/1.0/modules/slash/


=item Installation

The details on how to install, and upgrade, Slash.

F<INSTALL>


=item API

The details of the API available in Slash.

	perldoc Slash
	perldoc Slash::Utility
	perldoc Slash::Display
	perldoc Slash::DB

The modules represent the bulk of the public API of Slash.
The other Slash modules have embedded POD to be read with perldoc, too.
Some of the documentation here is woefully incomplete.

	use Source 'Luke';


=item HOWTOs

There are currently the beginnings of HOWTO documents
for templates, plugins, and themes.

F<docs/HOWTO-Plugins.pod>

F<docs/HOWTO-Templates.pod>

F<docs/HOWTO-Themes.pod>


=item Schema

The layout and description of the database.  [These are out of date.]

F<docs/slasherd.fig>

F<docs/slasherd.ps>

F<docs/slashtables.pod>


=item Other

The slashguide document (previously called getting_started) helps
you get your feet wet and gives vital information for how to run
a Slash site.

F<docs/slashguide.pod>

F<themes/slashcode/htdocs/slashguide.shtml>


=item Authors

The authors and contributors of Slash.

F<AUTHORS>


=back


=head1 LINKS

=over 4

=item Slashdot

The site that started it all.

http://slashdot.org/


=item Slash

The main site for Slash.

http://slashcode.com/


=item CVS

The main CVS repository.

http://cvs.slashcode.com/


=item SourceForge.net Site

Access to the code, bug reports, patches, mailing lists, and more.

http://sf.net/projects/slashcode/

=back


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

The information below applies to everything in this distribution,
except where noted.

Copyright 1997-2003 by Open Source Development Network.

	http://www.osdn.com/

Slash is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

Slash is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with Slash (F<COPYING>); if not, go to http://www.fsf.org/
or write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place -
Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.



=head1 VERSION

$Id$
